 Remote Access to QNX RTOS on Raspberry Pi via SSH
 Overview

This guide explains how to remotely access a QNX 8.0 RTOS running on a Raspberry Pi using SSH (Secure Shell).
The goal is to establish a developer-friendly remote terminal connection between a host laptop and the Raspberry Pi board running QNX.

This setup allows you to:

Control and monitor the QNX target directly from your laptop.

Run commands, transfer files, and test device drivers remotely.

Build and deploy QNX applications efficiently without needing a monitor or keyboard connected to the Raspberry Pi.

System Requirements
Component	Description
Hardware	Raspberry Pi (any model with Ethernet/Wi-Fi support)
Software	QNX SDP 8.0 installed and booted on SD card
Network	Router with DHCP enabled
Client Machine	Laptop (Windows/Linux/macOS) with PuTTY or SSH client
Connection Type	Ethernet or Wi-Fi

Step 1: Flash QNX to SD Card

Use QNX SDP tools to build a suitable image for the Raspberry Pi (example: ifs-rpi-aarch64.raw).

Flash the image to an SD card using:

balinaEtcher

Insert the SD card into the Raspberry Pi.

Step 2: Boot the Raspberry Pi

Connect:

Power supply

Ethernet cable to router

Power on the board.

Wait until QNX boots successfully. You’ll see boot messages on HDMI if connected.

Step 3: Find Raspberry Pi’s IP Address

Since QNX is connected to your local network, it receives an IP via DHCP.

Option 1 – Using Fing App (on mobile)

Install the Fing app on your phone.

Scan your local network.

Note down the device named something like Generic or QNX Target (e.g., 192.168.1.33).

Option 2 – From Router Admin Page

Log into your router’s admin page.

Find the connected device list.

Identify your Raspberry Pi by its MAC address prefix (b8:27:eb or d8:3a:dd).

Step 4: SSH into QNX Target
For Windows:

Use PuTTY:

Hostname: <your_rpi_ip> (eg :192.168.1.33)

Port: 22

Connection Type: SSH

Click Open.
When prompted:

login as: root
Password: <press Enter if no password>


You should see:

root@qnxpi:/root#


Congratulations! You are now inside the QNX terminal remotely.

Step 5: Understanding What’s Happening

When QNX boots, it starts the sshd service, which listens on port 22.
This allows remote users to connect using SSH protocol.

You verified this using:

pidin | grep sshd


Output:

system/bin/sshd
system/bin/sshd-session


This confirms the SSH daemon is active and ready to accept connections.

Step 6: Useful Commands
Command	Description
whoami	Shows the current logged-in user
ifconfig	Displays network interface details
ls /dev	Lists available device files
exit	Logs out from SSH session
